README.md, before:

# ISO 20022 Messages Consumption on AWS

ISO 20022 Messages Consumption is an AWS Solution designed to receive,
consume, and release ISO 20022 payment messages. You can deploy this solution
as a proxy in front of your existing payments infrastructure, on-prem or
in the cloud, or use it as the foundational building block to modernize
existing payments systems.

This solution provides multi-region, tunable consistency with the
decision-making process managed by API consumers that allows for the
acceptance, rejection, cancellation, and re-drive of data processing
workflows with failover across AWS regions.

## Event-Driven Architecture

![Architecture Diagram](./docs/architecture.png "Event-Driven Architecture")

### Step-by-Step Guidance

1. API consumer calls regional AUTH endpoint associated with region-specific
Amazon Cognito’s Client ID and Client Secret, and receives OAuth 2.0 Access
Token (to be used with all subsequent API requests)

2. API consumer calls regional API endpoint associated with the Transaction MSA
and receives HTTP 200 with a response payload that includes a transaction ID
(to be used with all subsequent API requests)

3. Transaction MSA generates UUID v4, verifies if it is unique within current
partition in Amazon DynamoDB (transaction table) and records step in DynamoDB
(status = ACCP); otherwise retries up to 3 times

4. API consumer calls regional API endpoint associated with Incoming Queue and
passes transaction ID as HTTP header and ISO 20022 incoming message as HTTP
body (this step starts the internal event-driven workflow)

5. Incoming MSA consumes the ISO 20022 message from Incoming Queue, stores it
into S3 bucket (incoming path), records step in DynamoDB (status = ACTC) and
pushes incoming message to Processing Queue

6. Processing MSA consumes the ISO 20022 message from Processing Queue, runs
technical and business validations including sync calls to other MSAs:
FIPS-140-2 / KYC / AML / Fraud / Liquidity / etc., records step in DynamoDB
(status = ACSP or RJCT) and pushes ISO 20022 confirmation or rejection message
to Releasing Queue

7. Releasing MSA consumes the ISO 20022 message from Releasing Queue, stores it
into S3 bucket (outgoing path), records step in DynamoDB (status = ACSC or
RJCT) and pushes notification to Amazon SNS

8. API consumer calls regional API endpoint associated with the Outgoing MSA
and receives HTTP 200 with the ISO 20022 outgoing message as a response payload

9. Timeout MSA executes every 15 seconds to retrieve any transaction that
exceeds SLA, generates rejection ISO 20022 message, stores it in S3 (outgoing
path) and records new step in DynamoDB (status = RJCT)

10. OPTIONALLY, for on-prem downstream systems leveraging existing messaging
capabilities (e.g. IBM MQ, or Kafka, etc); deploy the same tool in the cloud
and use native replication between on-premises and cloud

11. MQ Reader MSA consumes messages from cloud-based MQ and submits them to
the Incoming API (see steps 1 through 5 from above)

12. MQ Writer MSA consumes messages from Outgoing API and pushes them to
cloud-based MQ (see steps 1, 2 and 9 from above)

## Getting Started

### Pre-requisites

* an [AWS account](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/accounts/latest/reference/manage-acct-creating.html)
* already installed [AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html),
[Terraform](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/tutorials/aws-get-started/install-cli) and
[Terragrunt](https://terragrunt.gruntwork.io/docs/getting-started/install/)
* [AWS access keys](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/accounts/latest/reference/credentials-access-keys-best-practices.html)
used by AWS CLI
* allowed AWS CLI permissions to create
[AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) roles](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_create.html)
and [AWS CodeBuild project](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codebuild/latest/userguide/planning.html) (e.g.,
[IAMFullAccess](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/aws-managed-policy/latest/reference/IAMFullAccess.html) and
[AWSCodeBuildAdminAccess](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/aws-managed-policy/latest/reference/AWSCodeBuildAdminAccess.html))
* an [Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3) bucket](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/create-bucket-overview.html)
used by Terraform remote state (e.g. *rp2-backend-us-east-1*)
* a custom domain (e.g., *example.com*)
* configured
[AWS Certificate Manager public certificate](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/acm/latest/userguide/gs-acm-request-public.html)
(e.g., nested *example.com* and wildcarded **.example.com*)

> IMPORTANT: If you select the AWS target region something else than
*us-east-1*, please make sure to create public certificates in both your target
region and *us-east-1*. Amazon Cognito custom domain deploys hosted UI using
Amazon CloudFront distribution under the hood which requires the public
certificate to be pre-configured in *us-east-1* region.

### Validate Pre-requisites

Starting at the ROOT level of this repository, run the following command:

  ```sh
  /bin/bash ./bin/validate.sh -q example.com -r us-east-1 -t rp2-backend-us-east-1
  ```

> REMINDER: Make sure to replace *example.com* with your custom domain,
*us-east-1* with your target AWS region and *rp2-backend-us-east-1* with
your S3 bucket.

Review output logs for any potential errors and warnings before moving forward
to the next step.

### Create CI/CD Pipeline

Starting at the ROOT level of this repository, run the following command:

  ```sh
  /bin/bash ./bin/deploy.sh -q example.com -r us-east-1 -t rp2-backend-us-east-1
  ```

> REMINDER: Make sure to replace *example.com* with your custom domain,
*us-east-1* with your target AWS region and *rp2-backend-us-east-1* with
your S3 bucket.

Once the build execution is successful, you should be able to login to AWS
Management Console, navigate to AWS CodeBuild service and see the newly created
project named something like *rp2-cicd-pipeline-abcd1234*.

The suffix *abcd1234* in your AWS CodeBuild project name is the solution
deployment id. This value can be used to test this solution, once deployed
successfully.

### Deploy Solution

Using CI/CD pipeline created in the previous step, run the following commands:

  ```sh
  aws codebuild list-projects --region us-east-1 \
      --query 'projects[?contains(@, `rp2-cicd-pipeline`) == `true`]'
  ```

> REMINDER: Make sure to replace *us-east-1* with your target AWS region.

The output from the previous command should be used as the `project_name` input
in the next command (just replace *rp2-cicd-pipeline-abcd1234* with new value):

  ```sh
  aws codebuild start-build --region us-east-1 \
      --project_name rp2-cicd-pipeline-abcd1234
  ```

> REMINDER: Make sure to replace *us-east-1* with your target AWS region and
*rp2-cicd-pipeline-abcd1234* with the value from the previous command.

Once the build execution is successful, the following two commands will return
the public subdomain names to be updated with your DNS provider:

  ```sh
  aws cognito-idp describe-user-pool-domain --region us-east-1 \
      --domain auth-us-east-1.example.com \
      --query 'DomainDescription.{domain: Domain, target: CloudFrontDistribution}'
  ```

> REMINDER: Make sure to replace *us-east-1* with your target AWS region and
*auth-us-east-1.example.com* with your auth subdomain.

  ```sh
  aws apigateway get-domain-names --region us-east-1 \
      --query 'items[?contains(domainName, `example.com`) == `true`].{domain: domainName, target: regionalDomainName}'
  ```

> REMINDER: Make sure to replace *us-east-1* with your target AWS region and
*example.com* with your custom domain.

First command returns the domain name and target value of the AUTH endpoint.
This endpoint will be used to retrieve OAuth 2.0 Access Token. Second command
returns the domain names and target values of the API endpoints. Use these
domain names and target values to update your DNS provider.

### Run Tests

The suffix *abcd1234* in your AWS CodeBuild project name is the solution
deployment ID. This value can be used to test this solution, as shown below.

Test script is based on [curl](https://everything.curl.dev/get) and
[jq](https://jqlang.github.io/jq/download/). Make sure you have installed
them locally before executing below described command.

Starting at the ROOT level of this repository, run the following command:

  ```sh
  /bin/bash ./bin/test.sh -q example.com -r us-east-1 -i abcd1234
  ```

> REMINDER: Make sure to replace *example.com* with your custom domain,
*us-east-1* with your target AWS region and *abcd1234* with your solution
deployment ID.

## Considerations

1. Amazon Cognito custom domain deploys hosted UI using Amazon CloudFront
distribution under the hood which requires the public certificate in Amazon
Certificate Manager to be pre-configured in *us-east-1* region. Please make
sure to create public certificates in both your target region and *us-east-1*.
Terraform configuration where this behavior is defined can be viewed
[here](./iac.src/cognito_user_domain/data.tf#L12)

2. AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) role configured for AWS CodeBuild
allows least privilege access. Build script assumes programmatically another
IAM role that provides elevated admin privileges and is restricted to your
target AWS account, AWS region and AWS CodeBuild IP range.
Terraform configuration where this behavior is defined can be viewed
[here](./iac.cicd/iam_role_codebuild/data.tf#L16) and
[here](./iac.cicd/iam_role_assume/data.tf#L8)

3. Amazon Web Application Firewall is deployed by default in non-blocking mode.
To change this behavior from `count` to `block`, update Terraform configuration
[here](./iac.src/waf_web_acl/main.tf#L16). To add more rules, update
Terraform configuration [here](./iac.src/waf_web_acl/locals.tf#L2)

4. Amazon Simple Storage Service blocks public access by default. This solution
removes this block on both account level and bucket level to enable health
checks managed via data plane of Amazon S3. Terraform configuration where this
behavior is defined can be viewed [here](./iac.src/s3_health/main.tf#L25) and
[here](./iac.src/s3_health/main.tf#L39)

5. Amazon EventBridge Scheduler is used to trigger every minute AWS Lambda
functions for `Timeout MSA` and `Recover MSA` . To change this behavior,
update Terraform configuration [here](./iac.src/scheduler_timeout/main.tf#L8)
and [here](./iac.src/scheduler_recover/main.tf#L8). We are still exploring
options to provide a more granular solution, down to every X seconds

## Clean Up

If you decide to clean up your AWS environment and remove all AWS resources
deployed by this solution, this can be easily achieved by running the following
two commands:

  ```sh
  /bin/bash ./bin/deploy.sh -c true -d iac.src -q example.com -r us-east-1 -t rp2-backend-us-east-1
  ```

  ```sh
  /bin/bash ./bin/deploy.sh -c true -d iac.cicd -q example.com -r us-east-1 -t rp2-backend-us-east-1
  ```

> REMINDER: Make sure to replace *example.com* with your custom domain,
*us-east-1* with your target AWS region and *rp2-backend-us-east-1* with
your S3 bucket.

## Security

See [CONTRIBUTING](./CONTRIBUTING.md#security-issue-notifications) for more
information.

## License

This library is licensed under the MIT-0 License. See the [LICENSE](./LICENSE)
file.

Commit message:

cognito and api gateway custom domains

README.md, after:

# ISO 20022 Messages Consumption on AWS

ISO 20022 Messages Consumption is an AWS Solution designed to receive,
consume, and release ISO 20022 payment messages. You can deploy this solution
as a proxy in front of your existing payments infrastructure, on-prem or
in the cloud, or use it as the foundational building block to modernize
existing payments systems.

This solution provides multi-region, tunable consistency with the
decision-making process managed by API consumers that allows for the
acceptance, rejection, cancellation, and re-drive of data processing
workflows with failover across AWS regions.

## Event-Driven Architecture

![Architecture Diagram](./docs/architecture.png "Event-Driven Architecture")

### Step-by-Step Guidance

1. API consumer calls regional AUTH endpoint associated with region-specific
Amazon Cognito’s Client ID and Client Secret, and receives OAuth 2.0 Access
Token (to be used with all subsequent API requests)

2. API consumer calls regional API endpoint associated with the Transaction MSA
and receives HTTP 200 with a response payload that includes a transaction ID
(to be used with all subsequent API requests)

3. Transaction MSA generates UUID v4, verifies if it is unique within current
partition in Amazon DynamoDB (transaction table) and records step in DynamoDB
(status = ACCP); otherwise retries up to 3 times

4. API consumer calls regional API endpoint associated with Incoming Queue and
passes transaction ID as HTTP header and ISO 20022 incoming message as HTTP
body (this step starts the internal event-driven workflow)

5. Incoming MSA consumes the ISO 20022 message from Incoming Queue, stores it
into S3 bucket (incoming path), records step in DynamoDB (status = ACTC) and
pushes incoming message to Processing Queue

6. Processing MSA consumes the ISO 20022 message from Processing Queue, runs
technical and business validations including sync calls to other MSAs:
FIPS-140-2 / KYC / AML / Fraud / Liquidity / etc., records step in DynamoDB
(status = ACSP or RJCT) and pushes ISO 20022 confirmation or rejection message
to Releasing Queue

7. Releasing MSA consumes the ISO 20022 message from Releasing Queue, stores it
into S3 bucket (outgoing path), records step in DynamoDB (status = ACSC or
RJCT) and pushes notification to Amazon SNS

8. API consumer calls regional API endpoint associated with the Outgoing MSA
and receives HTTP 200 with the ISO 20022 outgoing message as a response payload

9. Timeout MSA executes every 15 seconds to retrieve any transaction that
exceeds SLA, generates rejection ISO 20022 message, stores it in S3 (outgoing
path) and records new step in DynamoDB (status = RJCT)

10. OPTIONALLY, for on-prem downstream systems leveraging existing messaging
capabilities (e.g. IBM MQ, or Kafka, etc); deploy the same tool in the cloud
and use native replication between on-premises and cloud

11. MQ Reader MSA consumes messages from cloud-based MQ and submits them to
the Incoming API (see steps 1 through 5 from above)

12. MQ Writer MSA consumes messages from Outgoing API and pushes them to
cloud-based MQ (see steps 1, 2 and 9 from above)

## Getting Started

### Pre-requisites

* an [AWS account](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/accounts/latest/reference/manage-acct-creating.html)
* already installed [AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html),
[Terraform](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/tutorials/aws-get-started/install-cli) and
[Terragrunt](https://terragrunt.gruntwork.io/docs/getting-started/install/)
* [AWS access keys](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/accounts/latest/reference/credentials-access-keys-best-practices.html)
used by AWS CLI
* allowed AWS CLI permissions to create
[AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) roles](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_create.html)
and [AWS CodeBuild project](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codebuild/latest/userguide/planning.html) (e.g.,
[IAMFullAccess](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/aws-managed-policy/latest/reference/IAMFullAccess.html) and
[AWSCodeBuildAdminAccess](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/aws-managed-policy/latest/reference/AWSCodeBuildAdminAccess.html))
* an [Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3) bucket](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/create-bucket-overview.html)
used by Terraform remote state (e.g. *rp2-backend-us-east-1*)
* a custom domain (e.g., *example.com*)
* configured
[AWS Certificate Manager public certificate](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/acm/latest/userguide/gs-acm-request-public.html)
(e.g., nested *example.com* and wildcarded **.example.com*)

> IMPORTANT: If you select the AWS target region something else than
*us-east-1*, please make sure to create public certificates in both your target
region and *us-east-1*. Amazon Cognito custom domain deploys hosted UI using
Amazon CloudFront distribution under the hood which requires the public
certificate to be pre-configured in *us-east-1* region.

### Validate Pre-requisites

Starting at the ROOT level of this repository, run the following command:

  ```sh
  /bin/bash ./bin/validate.sh -q example.com -r us-east-1 -t rp2-backend-us-east-1
  ```

> REMINDER: Make sure to replace *example.com* with your custom domain,
*us-east-1* with your target AWS region and *rp2-backend-us-east-1* with
your S3 bucket.

Review output logs for any potential errors and warnings before moving forward
to the next step.

### Create CI/CD Pipeline

Starting at the ROOT level of this repository, run the following command:

  ```sh
  /bin/bash ./bin/deploy.sh -q example.com -r us-east-1 -t rp2-backend-us-east-1
  ```

> REMINDER: Make sure to replace *example.com* with your custom domain,
*us-east-1* with your target AWS region and *rp2-backend-us-east-1* with
your S3 bucket.

Once the build execution is successful, you should be able to login to AWS
Management Console, navigate to AWS CodeBuild service and see the newly created
project named something like *rp2-cicd-pipeline-abcd1234*.

The suffix *abcd1234* in your AWS CodeBuild project name is the solution
deployment id. This value can be used to test this solution, once deployed
successfully.

### Deploy Solution

Using CI/CD pipeline created in the previous step, run the following commands:

  ```sh
  aws codebuild list-projects --region us-east-1 \
      --query 'projects[?contains(@, `rp2-cicd-pipeline`) == `true`]'
  ```

> REMINDER: Make sure to replace *us-east-1* with your target AWS region.

The output from the previous command should be used as the `project_name` input
in the next command (just replace *rp2-cicd-pipeline-abcd1234* with new value):

  ```sh
  aws codebuild start-build --region us-east-1 \
      --project_name rp2-cicd-pipeline-abcd1234
  ```

> REMINDER: Make sure to replace *us-east-1* with your target AWS region and
*rp2-cicd-pipeline-abcd1234* with the value from the previous command.

Once the build execution is successful, you need to retrieve newly created
custom domain names to update your DNS provider. Next, we will describe how to
retrieve them directly from Cognito and API Gateway using AWS CLI.

  ```sh
  aws cognito-idp describe-user-pool-domain --region us-east-1 \
      --domain auth-us-east-1.example.com \
      --query 'DomainDescription.{domain: Domain, target: CloudFrontDistribution}'
  ```

> REMINDER: Make sure to replace *us-east-1* with your target AWS region and
*auth-us-east-1.example.com* with your auth subdomain.

  ```sh
  aws apigateway get-domain-names --region us-east-1 \
      --query 'items[?contains(domainName, `example.com`) == `true`].{domain: domainName, target: regionalDomainName}'
  ```

> REMINDER: Make sure to replace *us-east-1* with your target AWS region and
*example.com* with your custom domain.

First command returns the domain name and target value of the AUTH endpoint.
This endpoint will be used to retrieve OAuth 2.0 Access Token.

Second command returns the domain names and target values of the API endpoints.
Use these domain names and target values to update your DNS provider.

### Run Tests

The suffix *abcd1234* in your AWS CodeBuild project name is the solution
deployment ID. This value can be used to test this solution, as shown below.

Test script is based on [curl](https://everything.curl.dev/get) and
[jq](https://jqlang.github.io/jq/download/). Make sure you have installed
them locally before executing below described command.

Starting at the ROOT level of this repository, run the following command:

  ```sh
  /bin/bash ./bin/test.sh -q example.com -r us-east-1 -i abcd1234
  ```

> REMINDER: Make sure to replace *example.com* with your custom domain,
*us-east-1* with your target AWS region and *abcd1234* with your solution
deployment ID.

## Considerations

1. Amazon Cognito custom domain deploys hosted UI using Amazon CloudFront
distribution under the hood which requires the public certificate in Amazon
Certificate Manager to be pre-configured in *us-east-1* region. Please make
sure to create public certificates in both your target region and *us-east-1*.
Terraform configuration where this behavior is defined can be viewed
[here](./iac.src/cognito_user_domain/data.tf#L12)

2. AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) role configured for AWS CodeBuild
allows least privilege access. Build script assumes programmatically another
IAM role that provides elevated admin privileges and is restricted to your
target AWS account, AWS region and AWS CodeBuild IP range.
Terraform configuration where this behavior is defined can be viewed
[here](./iac.cicd/iam_role_codebuild/data.tf#L16) and
[here](./iac.cicd/iam_role_assume/data.tf#L8)

3. Amazon Web Application Firewall is deployed by default in non-blocking mode.
To change this behavior from `count` to `block`, update Terraform configuration
[here](./iac.src/waf_web_acl/main.tf#L16). To add more rules, update
Terraform configuration [here](./iac.src/waf_web_acl/locals.tf#L2)

4. Amazon Simple Storage Service blocks public access by default. This solution
removes this block on both account level and bucket level to enable health
checks managed via data plane of Amazon S3. Terraform configuration where this
behavior is defined can be viewed [here](./iac.src/s3_health/main.tf#L25) and
[here](./iac.src/s3_health/main.tf#L39)

5. Amazon EventBridge Scheduler is used to trigger every minute AWS Lambda
functions for `Timeout MSA` and `Recover MSA` . To change this behavior,
update Terraform configuration [here](./iac.src/scheduler_timeout/main.tf#L8)
and [here](./iac.src/scheduler_recover/main.tf#L8). We are still exploring
options to provide a more granular solution, down to every X seconds

## Clean Up

If you decide to clean up your AWS environment and remove all AWS resources
deployed by this solution, this can be easily achieved by running the following
two commands:

  ```sh
  /bin/bash ./bin/deploy.sh -c true -d iac.src -q example.com -r us-east-1 -t rp2-backend-us-east-1
  ```

  ```sh
  /bin/bash ./bin/deploy.sh -c true -d iac.cicd -q example.com -r us-east-1 -t rp2-backend-us-east-1
  ```

> REMINDER: Make sure to replace *example.com* with your custom domain,
*us-east-1* with your target AWS region and *rp2-backend-us-east-1* with
your S3 bucket.

## Security

See [CONTRIBUTING](./CONTRIBUTING.md#security-issue-notifications) for more
information.

## License

This library is licensed under the MIT-0 License. See the [LICENSE](./LICENSE)
file.
